In this video we're going to go ahead and configure spring mock MVC to work with spring rust docs.
Now up on the screen I have the official documentation from Spring rust docs and want to point out a
couple of things because we're gonna go in and do something different from what's in the documentation
that's currently available.
I show you a different technique that I think is a little little easier and a little slicker here.
What we need to do is we need to pass in this documentation configuration so this is going to configure
the spring rest docs to work with a spring mock MVC.
So we have to add that and when that mock MVC component is built our problem is is that the way our
tests are set up right now is we're asking the spring context to give us a pre configured mock MVC so
we would have to refactor our test to not do that or I'm going to show you a technique to do that but
I did want to talk about this and highlight it because this is one technique mock MVC there's actually
several different ways that you can work with spring Mark MVC.
I've shown a variety we are on one where we are using a test space within Spring Boot and the Spring
Boot test utilities and here this is now using Spring Boot to bring that in that's actually asking spring
for a web application context and is going to build it that way.
I'm going to show you a different technique for this.
And then here the other thing that we need to point out is we need to extend our J unit five tests so
we can see down here we are doing extend with the rest documentation class and optionally the spring
extension and we'll talk about that when I get over to Intel J as well because we no longer need to
do that in the setup that we have.
Now if you're using J Unit 4 you do need to bring in a rule and that is documented here.
I'm only going to be covering J Unit 5 in the course because that's kind of the direction the entire
industry right now is to start adopting J.
Unit 5.
But if you do have Geno for testing you need to work with a you can add in a role it's pretty pretty
straightforward so we jump over to Intel J now and show you this alternative configuration.
So here I am telling you I'm going to go open up that test.
So here's our beer controller test and what's happening here is we have the Spring MVC test and this
is bringing up the Spring Boot test place which is just going to be setting up the web environment for
testing.
You can see on line thirty one I'm asking for an order wired instance of mock MVC.
So what's happening here is Spring Boot is going to auto configure that mock MVC instance for this and
there's an addition to rest stocks what we can do is we've just come in and we do auto configure rest
docs like so and now that is going to auto configure what I showed you on the documentation that's going
to do automatically for us.
Now one other thing that we do need to add here is we'll come in and say extend with.
We need this robust documentation extension.
Now the documentation talked about the spring extension.
Let's show you here I'm going to drill into the web MVC test annotation.
So in here you can see that is already being done and this is a fairly recent addition to spring to
add in that extend with to the test annotations I want to say that right now it's May 2019.
I'm pretty sure this happened in 2019.
It was like release earlier this year where they added in the spring extension so it hasn't been there
for that long and you'll see when you start looking at June 5 and Spring Boot you'll still see a lot
of people recommending to put that extend within.
And you do not need to add that anymore and that is a recent addition.
So that is there now.
So let's just recap what we've done here is we are taking in an auto wired mock MVC instance firm Spring
Boot and we are telling the framework online 30 to auto configure rest docs and then we still need to
add in the rest documentation extension.
So now what this has done at this point are Mark and B.C. is all set up for spring run stocks and we
can start adding test commands and we'll start covering that in the next video we'll get into how to
start documenting our endpoints and using a spring rest docs.